What's up guys so I am going to be starting
We are going to be starting a 30 by 40 garage and this is a residential garage
It's gonna be 12 foot tall and it's gonna have a 16 foot door in the front
what I would say is probably the most common residential garage out there and
Small enough to be built by just about anybody
What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna try to this build series. You're gonna want to follow along you're gonna want to subscribe
I'm gonna try to take you through step by step what it takes to put this up
And hopefully you'll be able to do this yourself if you want to if you're not my area if you're in my area
You know, hopefully you give me a call. Let me build it for you
first thing that I got to do when we show up site is
Logistically, we've got to make sure everything is where we want it and get prepared a site that is basically a jumbled up mess
You just start off on the wrong foot. We don't have a ton of room
I mean, you know typically if you're out in a farm
You know out the middle of a field you got all sorts of room to put stuff everywhere
But this is our site. We've got a 30 by 40. I don't probably need the 33 94 mega deck but
You know, I'm gonna use it. Anyway, all this material got dropped by my supplier
Now we've got to put it in a spot get it out of our way
So that we can start cutting it up. So we lay out this building and get it dug in
so one of the first things that we're going to do is we're going to find in our layout our
constant line and so what the customers requested back here is they've got a
porch off the house that they want us to square the back or
Run our back of our wall parallel with so what we're doing back here is we're getting a string line
Attached to that porch and then we ran it
Parallel to that porch to determine where the back of our building is
And once we have that line to find that will be your constant line that you won't move
Throughout the process of getting your building laid out and square
Pretty old-fashioned way of doing our setup we use jet Stakes so you can see this nail right down here. That is our loose
location that was defined
Based on running a parallel line off of this porch
You can see the string sitting there. This is the location the customer already determined where they wanted to start the building over here
There was a post here a little stick
So we measured over our 30 foot on this string line to determine that point
so this line will stay here and we'll use that to determine the
Front two corners up here and we'll do that by pulling some tapes
Both on the walls and across the diagonal. Okay. So what we've done is we use that back line as our constant we then
basically used
Two nails on the ground to find a square dimension
Which is this nail that we got on the ground right here?
And then all we're gonna do temporarily is put our string lines
Visually over that nail to get it close enough that we can then pull out our tapes and get exact dimensions on these strings
Gregor you looped down there. Yeah, okay
Little over-under not
Okay
There's that and then let's pull
Let's go ahead and pull then Greg gonna pull the tape off
Yeah, but you don't have a 39 Niner, right?
Yep
So we're just pulling off of that mark down there, this is a 39-foot nine to mention
He's burning me a foot, which means I'm gonna mark 40 foot nine inch
And we're all set a nail
You got enough over there Zack if I put a loop
Do it a little tug, okay
All right, we just got everything laid down we got our marks all on the ground
So now the fun part busting out the Kubota to do some digging
What I always have Greg do is he goes around with the level and that level?
Not only oops that level not only determines to be perfectly underneath that string line
but also the distance of it so that like two and a half inches of
level keeps our whole Center so that our bracket when it sits center of
The peer if that makes sense
So when the bracket is in the center of the peer on the center of the hole
It should be on the edge of that string line that make sense Greg. I think it does
Yeah, you've done it a lot of time. So
the more time that you spend in the setup stage
You know the layout the thought process the more time you spend there. Don't get in a hurry the better
The end result will be guaranteed
All right, we got the holes dug and now what we're gonna do is we're gonna go around
And we're gonna take what we call crummers or like a clamshell
Shovel, and we're gonna clean out all that loose dirt that's down in the bottom
I know in some of the videos you see us kick the dirt back in that's really just to clean around the hole
Instead of having to shovel it over to the pile. We let the auger do the work so you can kind of see
here
Getting a little bit of moisture down there in the bottom we have had a bunch of rain in the last couple days
But goal is to get these cleaned out as much as possible well look at that
That was cool, huh?
We're right by an airport, so we're gonna have planes flying over us
It's a big I think it's a FedEx UPS terminal big one. So there's always
747s coming in so that's kind of cool. We got the Stabila rotary laser set up
We're gonna go around now, we're gonna set all of our tubes in their locations and get them to grade
So when I say sonotubes these are what I'm talking about. They're really that's just a generic name
These are actually coil inserts
40 inch by 20 inch 20 inch diameter 40 inches tall and we cut these down
just to form the top of our sonotube and
make the top a little bit smaller than the bottom of the hole and these come from
Metal suppliers. So these are
Basically, I don't pay but I think 2 bucks apiece for these things if anybody's bought sonotubes, you know how expensive they are
So now that it's time to set our tubes in the ground
We've already got a predetermined grade height measurement
So that's sitting on the laser and I'm gonna basically put this tube
I'm gonna put this tube
at that laser mark
And the top of them will all be the same
and that kind of is more of a visual thing and it makes it easier for us to
Build our walls later on down the road. We don't have measurements all across the board
Oh, hey Greg, yeah
Yep
Go ahead
So we're just gonna then fill around this tube and that friction alone is what's gonna hold this tube where we want it
Yep, it's gonna hold it where we want it until we pour already mix and
all so what this does is this
This brings the top of this hole a little bit smaller
than what the rest of the hole is at the bottom that way there's a little bit of a bell shape and it helps with
uplift or heat down the road
So, there we go, we've got all of our holes
Ready for concrete you can see in there nice and clean on the bottom
this is
Usually the case if you look around see how much further
Zoom in here way back in that corner, see how that tube is sticking out of the ground about 8 inches and
across that whole back
typical
Excavator comes in puts in a quote unquote level pad and it's usually closed
But the sonotubes never lie the top of them are all set with the laser and you can see this one is flush
And then they drop down drop down drop down drop down and then they come back up the hill
So, you know, we're gonna always set our tubes
Level so that our brackets are level when you look across because eventually they're gonna pour a floor in here
They're gonna do all that work and we want that to be nice and level all the way around
So there we go. That's it now
Concrete truck will come in here after lunch. We'll get these poured and then we'll set these brackets
These are midwest perma column brackets. So we get these questions all the time
They're sturdy wall 630 Peas and these are for actually it's
Ot and the OT is for Ohio Timberland. These are made specifically for Ohio Timberland Post because Ohio Timberland Post
Which is what we're using they are
milled they take those three ply columns and every two by six in them gets ran through a mill to get
to become true
Dimension and when they do that, you're obviously gonna lose a little bit of dimension
So instead of being a four and a half by five and a half post, it's like four and three-eighths by five and three-eighths
Okay, you can see behind me. We got the concrete truck coming so
Six bag mix is what we're putting in these holes. We're out of the, you know winter time calcium hot water thing
Just like that concrete board
Get everything poured we got it smoothed off
Now we're going to do we're going to go through we'll mark all of our locations on the string
Exactly where we want to set these brackets and then we will
We'll get them set
Easy
Burn the foot eight four and a half
You